add alluxio getting start document (#1614)
NVIDIA/spark-rapids: docs/get-started/getting-started-alluxio.md

---
layout: page
title: Alluxio
nav_order: 5
parent: Getting-Started
---
# Get Started with RAPIDS with Alluxio

> Alluxio is a data orchestration platform brings your data closer to compute across clusters,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alluxio is a data orchestration platform that brings your data closer to compute across clusters,
```

Author: Done

regions, clouds, and countries. This guide will go through how to set up the RAPIDS Accelerator

> for Apache Spark 3.0 with Alluxio and on premise cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for Apache Spark with Alluxio with a on premise cluster.
```

Author: Done

> for Apache Spark 3.0 with Alluxio and on premise cluster.

Reviewer: we should probably have a section specifically for On Prem because we were going to add a seciton for Databricks right?

Author: ok

> 

Reviewer: we may want to add a bit more why you want to use alluxio and perhaps also that performance varies based on hardware - ssd, spinning disk, etc.

Author: Done

## Prerequisites

> Assuming that user has successfully run the RAPIDS Accelerator with on premise cluster according

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming that user has successfully setup and ran the RAPIDS Accelerator with on premise cluster according
```

to [this doc](getting-started-on-prem.md)

> This guide takes Yarn cluster as an example and assumes that there are 2 datanodes and 1 namenode in Yarn cluster, and their hostnames are respectively

Reviewer: is there a reason we use namenode and datanode here vs nodemanager and resourcemanager?  the namenode and datanodes are part of the HDFS cluster, are we assuming yarn has that or is it not needed -> ie I thought our test was with swiftstack.

Author: sorry, My bad. they should be ResourceManager and NodeManager. Thx Tom

``` json
namenode_hostname
datanode1_hostname
datanode2_hostname
```

## Alluxio setup

> It is recommending to deploy Alluxio workers in each datanode and Alluxio master in namenode.

Reviewer: similar question as above - explain why if this is the case, I assume you actually want it on the YARN nodes so its close to compute, yarn could run on different nodes then hdfs so we would want Nodemanager and Resourcemanager, again explain why

Author: yes, you're right

> 1. download the latest Alluxio version alluxio-${LATEST}-bin.tar.gz from [alluxio website](https://www.alluxio.io/download/)

Reviewer: capitalize and make sentences, what version did we test with, perhaps we should say minimal version here or just something about tested with X version

2. copy `alluxio-${LATEST}-bin.tar.gz` to all the datanodes and namenode

> 3. extract `alluxio-${LATEST}-bin.tar.gz` to `/opt/alluxio-${LATEST}` in datanode and namenode

Reviewer: /opt should be user setable, perhaps have this in above section and use variable here as reference.

   ``` shell
   tar xvf alluxio-${LATEST}-bin.tar.gz -C /opt
   ```
4. configure alluxio
    - Alluxio master configuration

   add below recommending configuration in `/opt/alluxio-${LATEST}/conf/alluxio-site.properties`
   ``` xml
   alluxio.master.hostname=namenode_hostname

   ######### worker properties #########
   ## configure async cache manager
   alluxio.worker.network.async.cache.manager.threads.max=64
   alluxio.worker.network.async.cache.manager.queue.max=51200
   alluxio.worker.tieredstore.levels=1

>    alluxio.worker.tieredstore.level0.alias=SSD

Reviewer: does this matter is not using SSD?  need to state in prereqs if does and what settings may change

Also below what is YOUR_CACHE_DIR and YOUR_DOMAIN_SOCKET_PATH, put those above... perhaps link to alluxio config docs specifically if needed

Author: Done

Reviewer: I don't see explanation for YOUR_CACHE_DIR, YOUR_DOMAIN_SOCKET_PATH  and YOUR_CACHE_QUOTA?

   alluxio.worker.tieredstore.level0.dirs.mediumtype=SSD
   alluxio.worker.tieredstore.level0.dirs.path=/YOUR_CACHE_DIR
   alluxio.worker.tieredstore.level0.dirs.quota=/YOUR_CACHE_QUOTA

   # enable domain socket
   alluxio.worker.data.server.domain.socket.address=/YOUR_DOMAIN_SOCKET_PATH
   alluxio.worker.data.server.domain.socket.as.uuid=true
   ####################################

   ######### User properties #########
   ## enable circuit
   alluxio.user.short.circuit.preferred=true
   alluxio.user.short.circuit.enabled=true
   ## use LocalFirstPolicy
   alluxio.user.ufs.block.read.location.policy=alluxio.client.block.policy.LocalFirstPolicy
   ####################################

   # configure s3

>    alluxio.underfs.s3.endpoint=/S3_ENDPOINT

Reviewer: state what S3_ENDPOINT should be.

Author: added a link for this.

Reviewer: I assume you mean section Mount an existing S3 bucket to Alluxio.?  I was looking for reference to S3_ENDPOINT and didn't see it. I think we should put a comment here that says see that section for what S3_ENDPOINT means.

I've seen many people read a section like this, copy it and paste and then don't read further, so want to make sure its clear t user they have to do something with this and its easy to find what.

   alluxio.underfs.s3.inherit.acl=false
   alluxio.underfs.s3.default.mode=0755
   alluxio.underfs.s3.disable.dns.buckets=true
   ```

   add Alluxio worker hostnames into `/opt/alluxio-${LATEST}/conf/workers`

   ``` json
   datanode1_hostname
   datanode2_hostname
   ```

   - copy configuration from Alluxio master to Alluxio workers
   ``` shell
   /opt/alluxio-${LATEST}/bin/alluxio copyDir /opt/alluxio-${LATEST}/conf
   ```
   - Alluxio worker configuration
   add worker and user hostname respectively in the Alluxio configuration of each Alluxio worker
   ``` xml
   alluxio.worker.hostname=datanodeX_hostname
   alluxio.user.hostname=datanodeX_hostname
   ```
5. mount ufs
   
   ``` bash

>    /opt/alluxio-${LATEST}/bin/alluxio fs mount \

Reviewer: should clarify this is for s3, what about other filesystems?  perhaps link to alluxio docs

6. start Alluxio cluster
   login to Alluxio master node, and run
   ``` bash
   /opt/alluxio-${LATEST}/bin/alluxio-start.sh all
   ```

## RAPIDS Configuration

There are two ways to leverage Alluxio in RAPIDS.

1. explicitly specify alluxio path

This may require user to change code.

eg. change below code

``` scala
val df = spark.read.parquet("s3a://<S3_BUCKET>/<S3_DIRECTORY>/foo.parquet")
```

to

``` scala
val df = spark.read.parquet("alluxio://namenode_hostname:19998/s3/foo.parquet")
```

2. transparently replace in RAPIDS

RAPIDS has added a configuration `spark.rapids.alluxio.pathsToReplace` which can allow RAPIDS to replace the input file paths to alluxio paths transparently at runtime. So there is no any code change for users.

eg, at startup
``` shell
--conf spark.rapids.alluxio.pathsToReplace="s3:/foo->alluxio://datanode_hostname:19998/foo,gs:/bar->alluxio://datanode_hostname:19998/bar"
```

this configuration allows RAPIDS to replace any file paths prefixed `s3:/foo` to `alluxio://datanode_hostname:19998/foo` and `gs:/bar` to `alluxio://datanode_hostname:19998/bar`

3. submit an application
   First, user needs to copy alluxio client jar to spark jars
   ``` shell

>    cp /opt/alluxio-${LATEST}/client/alluxio-${LATEST}-client.jar ${SPARK_HOME}/jars

Reviewer: we should state this or submit with application --jars with spark-submit

   ```
   
   ``` shell
   ${SPARK_HOME}/bin/spark-submit \
      ...                          \
      --conf spark.rapids.alluxio.pathsToReplace="REPLACEMENT_RULES" \

>       --conf spark.executor.extraJavaOptions="-Dalluxio.conf.dir=/opt/alluxio-2.4.1/conf" \

Reviewer: hmm, is there a better way to specify this?  again don't use hardcoded /opt but reference VARIABLE

Author: or else, we need to copy to the conf to **/etc/alluxio** or **${user.home}/.alluxio**, better to specify alluxio.conf.dir by command

>    ```

Reviewer: it might be nice to add a little section about using alluxio or debugging.  How do you tell if its working - readLocal, etc. At least reference alluxio docs if sufficient or put a few details in we have learned

Author: yes, make sense

---
layout: page
title: Alluxio
nav_order: 5
parent: Getting-Started
---

> # Get Started with RAPIDS with Alluxio

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Getting Started with RAPIDS and Alluxio
```

RAPIDS plugin can remarkably accelerate the computing part of the whole SQL query by
leveraging GPUs, but it’s hard to accelerate the data reading process when the data

> is in the cloud file system because of network overhead. Alluxio is an open source

Reviewer 3: maybe add a link here to alluxio.io?

> RAPIDS plugin can remarkably accelerate the computing part of the whole SQL query by
> leveraging GPUs, but it’s hard to accelerate the data reading process when the data
> is in the cloud file system because of network overhead. Alluxio is an open source

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The RAPIDS plugin can remarkably accelerate the computing part of a SQL query by
leveraging GPUs, but it’s hard to accelerate the data reading process when the data
is in a cloud file system because of network overhead. Alluxio is an open source
```

data orchestration platform that brings your data closer to compute across clusters,
regions, clouds, and countries for reducing the network overhead. This guide will

> go through how to set up the RAPIDS Accelerator for Apache Spark with Alluxio with
> a on premise cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
go through how to set up the RAPIDS Accelerator for Apache Spark with Alluxio in
an on-premise cluster.
```

## Prerequisites

Assuming that user has successfully setup and ran the RAPIDS Accelerator with on premise
cluster according to [this doc](getting-started-on-prem.md)

This guide will deploy Alluxio on Yarn cluster with 2 NodeManagers and 1 ResourceManager,

> and describe the instructions to configure Swiftstack as Alluxio’s under storage system.

Reviewer: we say swiftstack here but nothing else in the doc reference it... should we just say s3 compatible filesystem or something?  are the credentials setup the same for switftstack with the aws.accessKey, etc?

> Assuming that user has successfully setup and ran the RAPIDS Accelerator with on premise
> cluster according to [this doc](getting-started-on-prem.md)
> 
> This guide will deploy Alluxio on Yarn cluster with 2 NodeManagers and 1 ResourceManager,
> and describe the instructions to configure Swiftstack as Alluxio’s under storage system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide assumes the user has successfully setup and run the RAPIDS Accelerator in an on-premise
cluster according to [this doc](getting-started-on-prem.md). 

This guide will go through deployment of Alluxio in a Yarn cluster with 2 NodeManagers and 1 ResourceManager.  It will describe how to configure an S3 compatible filesystem as Alluxio’s underlying 
storage system.
```

Let's assume the hostnames of Yarn cluster are respectively

``` json
RM_hostname
NM_hostname_1
NM_hostname_2
```

## Alluxio setup

It is recommending to deploy Alluxio workers in each NodeManager and Alluxio master in

> ResourceManager.

Reviewer: we may want to put the workers on the nodemanager so they are on the same nodes as the tasks will run, the master can go anywhere, we pick ResourceManager for convenience.  I don't think there is any reason to have it on the same host is there?

> It is recommending to deploy Alluxio workers in each NodeManager and Alluxio master in
> ResourceManager.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is recommended to deploy Alluxio workers in each NodeManager and the Alluxio master in the 
ResourceManager.
```

1. Download the latest Alluxio version (2.4.1) **alluxio-${LATEST}-bin.tar.gz** from [alluxio website](https://www.alluxio.io/download/).
2. Copy `alluxio-${LATEST}-bin.tar.gz` to all the NodeManagers and ResourceManager.
3. Extract `alluxio-${LATEST}-bin.tar.gz` to the directory specified by **ALLUXIO_HOME**

>    in NodeManager and ResourceManager.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   in the NodeManagers and ResourceManager.
```

   ``` shell
   # Let's assume to extract alluxio to /opt
   mkdir -p /opt
   tar xvf alluxio-${LATEST}-bin.tar.gz -C /opt
   export ALLUXIO_HOME=/opt/alluxio-${LATEST}
   ```

4. Configure alluxio.

>    - Alluxio master configuration

Reviewer: we should put something here that says see section below this for explanation of the settings and verify they are right for your environment.
Also this is really configuration for both master and workers right?

>    Add below recommending configuration in `${ALLUXIO_HOME}/conf/alluxio-site.properties`.

Reviewer: s/recommending/recommended

>    Add below recommending configuration in `${ALLUXIO_HOME}/conf/alluxio-site.properties`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Add the recommended configuration below to `${ALLUXIO_HOME}/conf/alluxio-site.properties`.
```

   ######### worker properties #########
   ## configure async cache manager
   alluxio.worker.network.async.cache.manager.threads.max=64
   alluxio.worker.network.async.cache.manager.queue.max=51200
   alluxio.worker.tieredstore.levels=1
   alluxio.worker.tieredstore.level0.alias=SSD
   alluxio.worker.tieredstore.level0.dirs.mediumtype=SSD
   alluxio.worker.tieredstore.level0.dirs.path=/YOUR_CACHE_DIR
   alluxio.worker.tieredstore.level0.dirs.quota=/YOUR_CACHE_QUOTA

   # enable domain socket
   alluxio.worker.data.server.domain.socket.address=/YOUR_DOMAIN_SOCKET_PATH
   alluxio.worker.data.server.domain.socket.as.uuid=true
   ####################################

   ######### User properties #########
   ## enable circuit
   alluxio.user.short.circuit.preferred=true
   alluxio.user.short.circuit.enabled=true
   ## use LocalFirstPolicy
   alluxio.user.ufs.block.read.location.policy=alluxio.client.block.policy.LocalFirstPolicy
   ####################################

   # Running Alluxio Locally with S3
   alluxio.underfs.s3.endpoint=/S3_ENDPOINT
   alluxio.underfs.s3.inherit.acl=false
   alluxio.underfs.s3.default.mode=0755
   alluxio.underfs.s3.disable.dns.buckets=true
   ```

>    For the explanation of each configuration, please refer to [Alluxio Configuration](https://docs.alluxio.io/os/user/stable/en/reference/Properties-List.html) and [Amazon AWS S3](https://docs.alluxio.io/os/user/stable/en/ufs/S3.html).

Reviewer: I want more explanation then this as to exactly why our setup uses some of these configs.  Someone might have an existing cluster with different configs and wonder why we used this.

   Add Alluxio worker hostnames into `${ALLUXIO_HOME}/conf/workers`.

   ``` json
   NM_hostname_1
   NM_hostname_2
   ```

   - Copy configuration from Alluxio master to Alluxio workers.

   ``` shell
   ${ALLUXIO_HOME}/bin/alluxio copyDir ${ALLUXIO_HOME}/conf
   ```
   - Alluxio worker configuration.

   Add worker and user hostname respectively in the Alluxio configuration of each Alluxio worker.

   ``` xml
   alluxio.worker.hostname=NM_hostname_X
   alluxio.user.hostname=NM_hostname_X
   ```

>    Note that Alluxio can manage other storage media (e.g. MEM, HDD) in addition to ssd,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Note that Alluxio can manage other storage media (e.g. MEM, HDD) in addition to SSDs,
```

   so local data access speed may vary depending on the local storage media. To learn
   more about this topic, please refer to the [tiered storage document](https://docs.alluxio.io/os/user/stable/en/core-services/Caching.html#multiple-tier-storage).

5. Mount an existing S3 bucket to Alluxio.

   ``` bash
   ${ALLUXIO_HOME}/bin/alluxio fs mount \
      --option aws.accessKeyId=<AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID> \
      --option aws.secretKey=<AWS_SECRET_KEY_ID> \
      alluxio://RM_hostname:19998/s3 s3a://<S3_BUCKET>/<S3_DIRECTORY>
   ```

>    For other filesystem, please refer to [this site](https://www.alluxio.io/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   For other filesystems, please refer to [this site](https://www.alluxio.io/)
```

6. Start Alluxio cluster.

>    Login Alluxio master node, and run

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Login to the Alluxio master node, and run
```

   ``` bash
   ${ALLUXIO_HOME}/bin/alluxio-start.sh all
   ```

## RAPIDS Configuration

There are two ways to leverage Alluxio in RAPIDS.

> 1. Explicitly specify alluxio path.
> 
>    This may require user to change code.
> 
>    Eg. Change below code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Explicitly specify the Alluxio path.

   This may require the user to change code.   For example, change: 
```

   ``` scala
   val df = spark.read.parquet("s3a://<S3_BUCKET>/<S3_DIRECTORY>/foo.parquet")
   ```

   to

   ``` scala
   val df = spark.read.parquet("alluxio://RM_hostname:19998/s3/foo.parquet")
   ```

2. Transparently replace in RAPIDS.

>    RAPIDS has added a configuration `spark.rapids.alluxio.pathsToReplace` which can allow RAPIDS
>    to replace the input file paths to alluxio paths transparently at runtime. So there is no any
>    code change for users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   RAPIDS has added a configuration `spark.rapids.alluxio.pathsToReplace` which can allow RAPIDS
   to replace the input file paths to Alluxio paths transparently at runtime. So there is no code 
   change for users.
```

   Eg, at startup
   ``` shell
   --conf spark.rapids.alluxio.pathsToReplace="s3:/foo->alluxio://RM_hostname:19998/foo,gs:/bar->alluxio://RM_hostname:19998/bar"
   ```

   This configuration allows RAPIDS to replace any file paths prefixed `s3:/foo` to

>    `alluxio://RM_hostname:19998/foo` and `gs:/bar` to `alluxio://RM_hostname:19998/bar`

Reviewer: we should state some of the caveats mentioned in code review.  input_file_name is going to print the alluxio:// path rather then the original. below is an example fo input_file_name.

```
lambda spark : spark.read.parquet(data_path)
.filter(f.col('a') > 0)
.selectExpr('a',
'input_file_name()',
'input_file_block_start()',
'input_file_block_length()'),
```

3. Submit an application.

>    Spark driver and tasks will parse `alluxio://` schema and access Alluxio cluster by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Spark driver and tasks will parse `alluxio://` schema and access Alluxio cluster using
```

>    `alluxio-${LATEST}-client.jar` which must be distributed across the all nodes where Spark drivers

Reviewer: remove everything after the alluxi-client.jar and put .  The distribution should be described below.

   or executors are running.

   The Alluxio client jar must be in the classpath of all Spark drivers and executors in order for
   Spark applications to access Alluxio.

>    We can specify it in the configuration of `spark.driver.extraClassPath` and

Reviewer: you shouldn't need to put it in the extraClasspath, just specify it with the --jars option on submission.

Reviewer: that's is weird, what exactly is error?  Is it on driver or executors? maybe its to early on startup, if this is on yarn it should distribute it and be in class path though before process starts

Reviewer: if specifying in extraClassPath that means it has to be present on the nodes. I can see this possibly for the driver node needing, but on yarn it shouldn't be needed for the executors. the --jar option on yarn copies the jar to the node and it should be in class path when the executor starts.  I'm ok with leaving it as is but we should state it has to be on nodes

Author: Done

   `spark.executor.extraClassPath`, but the simplest way is copy `alluxio-${LATEST}-client.jar`
   into spark jars directory.

   ``` shell
   cp ${ALLUXIO_HOME}/client/alluxio-${LATEST}-client.jar ${SPARK_HOME}/jars/
   ```

   ``` shell
   ${SPARK_HOME}/bin/spark-submit \
      ...                          \
      --conf spark.rapids.alluxio.pathsToReplace="REPLACEMENT_RULES" \
      --conf spark.executor.extraJavaOptions="-Dalluxio.conf.dir=${ALLUXIO_HOME}/conf" \
   ```

> ## Alluxio troubleshoot

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Alluxio Troubleshooting
```

This section will give some links about how to configure, tune Alluxio and some troubleshooting.
- [Quick Start Guide](https://docs.alluxio.io/os/user/stable/en/overview/Getting-Started.html)
- [Amazon S3 as Alluxio’s under storage system](https://docs.alluxio.io/os/user/stable/en/ufs/S3.html)
- [Alluxio metrics](https://docs.alluxio.io/os/user/stable/en/reference/Metrics-List.html)
- [Alluxio configuration](https://docs.alluxio.io/os/user/stable/en/reference/Properties-List.html)
- [Running Spark on Alluxio](https://docs.alluxio.io/os/user/stable/en/compute/Spark.html)

> - [Performance Tuning](https://docs.alluxio.io/ee/user/stable/en/operation/Performance-Tuning.html)

Reviewer 3: https://docs.alluxio.io/os/user/stable/en/operation/Performance-Tuning.html could you use this open source link instead of the enterprise edition link for consistency?

> - [Alluxio troublesshooting](https://docs.alluxio.io/os/user/stable/en/operation/Troubleshooting.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Alluxio troubleshooting](https://docs.alluxio.io/os/user/stable/en/operation/Troubleshooting.html)
```

      ############################################################################

      ########################### Client properties ##############################
      # When short circuit and domain socket both enabled, prefer to use short circuit.
      alluxio.user.short.circuit.preferred=true
      ############################################################################

      # Running Alluxio locally with S3
      # Optionally, to reduce data latency or visit resources which are separated in
      # different AWS regions, specify a regional endpoint to make aws requests.
      # An endpoint is a URL that is the entry point for a web service.
      #
      # For example, s3.cn-north-1.amazonaws.com.cn is an entry point for the Amazon S3
      # service in beijing region.
      alluxio.underfs.s3.endpoint=<endpoint_url>

      # Optionally, specify to make all S3 requests path style
      alluxio.underfs.s3.disable.dns.buckets=true
      ```

      For more explanations of each configuration, please refer to
      [Alluxio Configuration](https://docs.alluxio.io/os/user/stable/en/reference/Properties-List.html)

>       and [Amazon AWS S3](https://docs.alluxio.io/os/user/stable/en/ufs/S3.html).

Reviewer: I think we should also add a statement about security. I assume with this default setup there is no security enabled so we should add a message stating that and point to the alluxio security page.

Author: done

Reviewer: I'm missing it, what was added for this?  I don't see the word security in this doc.

Reviewer: I would us to say something about the instructions start a insecure Alluxio cluster.  User is responsible for adding security as needed, see Alluxio security doc here.....

Author: Sorry, my misunderstanding, Done

   ```

   For other filesystems, please refer to [this site](https://www.alluxio.io/).

6. Start Alluxio cluster.

   Login to Alluxio master node, and run

   ``` bash
   ${ALLUXIO_HOME}/bin/alluxio-start.sh all
   ```

   To verify that Alluxio is running, visit [http://RM_hostname:19999](http://RM_hostname:19999)
   to see the status page of the Alluxio master.

## RAPIDS Configuration

There are two ways to leverage Alluxio in RAPIDS.

1. Explicitly specify the Alluxio path.

   This may require user to change code. For example, Change

   ``` scala
   val df = spark.read.parquet("s3a://<S3_BUCKET>/<S3_DIRECTORY>/foo.parquet")
   ```

   to

   ``` scala
   val df = spark.read.parquet("alluxio://RM_hostname:19998/s3/foo.parquet")
   ```

2. Transparently replace in RAPIDS.

   RAPIDS has added a configuration `spark.rapids.alluxio.pathsToReplace` which can allow RAPIDS
   to replace the input file paths to the Alluxio paths transparently at runtime. So there is no
   code change for users.

   Eg, at startup

   ``` shell
   --conf spark.rapids.alluxio.pathsToReplace="s3:/foo->alluxio://RM_hostname:19998/foo,gs:/bar->alluxio://RM_hostname:19998/bar"
   ```

>    This configuration allows RAPIDS to replace any file paths prefixed`s3:/foo` to

Reviewer: add space between prefixed and 's3.  Also change "to" to "with" and same with below "to" to "with"

   `alluxio://RM_hostname:19998/foo` and `gs:/bar` to `alluxio://RM_hostname:19998/bar`.

>    After introducing Alluxio, **`input_file_name`** is going to print the `alluxio://` path

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Note, one side affect of using Alluxio in this way results in the sql function **`input_file_name`** printing the `alluxio://` path
```

>    rather than the original. below is an example fo input_file_name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   rather than the original path. Below is an example of using input_file_name.
```

   ``` python
   spark.read.parquet(data_path)
     .filter(f.col('a') > 0)
     .selectExpr('a', 'input_file_name()', 'input_file_block_start()', 'input_file_block_length()')
   ```

3. Submit an application.

   Spark driver and tasks will parse `alluxio://` schema and access Alluxio cluster using

>    `alluxio-${LATEST}-client.jar`. The distribution shoule be described as below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   `alluxio-${LATEST}-client.jar`.
```

---
layout: page
title: Alluxio
nav_order: 5
parent: Getting-Started
---
# Getting Started with RAPIDS and Alluxio

> Th RAPIDS plugin can remarkably accelerate the computing part of a SQL query by leveraging

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The RAPIDS plugin can remarkably accelerate the computing part of a SQL query by leveraging
```

Author: Done

GPUs, but it’s hard to accelerate the data reading process when the data is in a cloud
filesystem because of network overhead.

[Alluxio](https://www.alluxio.io/) is an open source data orchestration platform that
brings your data closer to compute across clusters, regions, clouds, and countries for
reducing the network overhead. Compute applications talking to Alluxio can transparently
cache frequently accessed data from multiple sources, especially from remote locations.

This guide will go through how to set up the RAPIDS Accelerator for Apache Spark with
Alluxio in an on-premise cluster.

## Prerequisites

This guide assumes the user has successfully setup and run the RAPIDS Accelerator in an
on-premise cluster according to [this doc](getting-started-on-prem.md).

This guide will go through deployment of Alluxio in a Yarn cluster with 2 NodeManagers and
1 ResourceManager, It will describe how to configure an S3 compatible filesystem as
Alluxio’s underlying storage system.

We may want to put the Alluxio workers on the NodeManagers so they are on the same nodes as

> the Spark tasks will run, the Alluxio master can go anywhere, we pick ResourceManager for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the Spark tasks will run.  The Alluxio master can go anywhere, we pick ResourceManager for
```

Author: Done

convenience.

Let's assume the hostnames are:

``` console
RM_hostname
NM_hostname_1
NM_hostname_2
```

## Alluxio setup

1. Download the latest Alluxio version (2.4.1-1) **alluxio-${LATEST}-bin.tar.gz**
   from [alluxio website](https://www.alluxio.io/download/).
2. Copy `alluxio-${LATEST}-bin.tar.gz` to all the NodeManagers and ResourceManager.
3. Extract `alluxio-${LATEST}-bin.tar.gz` to the directory specified by **ALLUXIO_HOME**
   in the NodeManagers and ResourceManager.

   ``` shell

>    # Let's assume to extract alluxio to /opt

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   # Let's assume we extract alluxio to /opt
```

Author: Done

      alluxio.worker.data.server.domain.socket.as.uuid=true

      # Configure async cache manager
      # When large amounts of data are expected to be asynchronously cached concurrently,
      # it may be helpful to increase below async cache configuration to handle a higher
      # workload.

      # The number of asynchronous threads used to finish reading partial blocks.
      alluxio.worker.network.async.cache.manager.threads.max=64

      # The maximum number of outstanding async caching requests to cache blocks in each
      # data server.
      alluxio.worker.network.async.cache.manager.queue.max=2000
      ############################################################################

      ########################### Client properties ##############################
      # When short circuit and domain socket both enabled, prefer to use short circuit.
      alluxio.user.short.circuit.preferred=true
      ############################################################################

      # Running Alluxio locally with S3
      # Optionally, to reduce data latency or visit resources which are separated in

>       # different AWS regions, specify a regional endpoint to make aws requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      # different AWS regions, specify a regional endpoint to make AWS requests.
```

Author: Done

      # An endpoint is a URL that is the entry point for a web service.
      #
      # For example, s3.cn-north-1.amazonaws.com.cn is an entry point for the Amazon S3
      # service in beijing region.
      alluxio.underfs.s3.endpoint=<endpoint_url>

      # Optionally, specify to make all S3 requests path style
      alluxio.underfs.s3.disable.dns.buckets=true
      ```

      For more explanations of each configuration, please refer to
      [Alluxio Configuration](https://docs.alluxio.io/os/user/stable/en/reference/Properties-List.html)
      and [Amazon AWS S3](https://docs.alluxio.io/os/user/stable/en/ufs/S3.html).

>       Note, If preparing to mount S3 compatible file system to the root of Alluxio namespace, the user

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      Note, when preparing to mount S3 compatible file system to the root of Alluxio namespace, the user
```

Author: Done

>       needs to add below aws credentials configuration to `${ALLUXIO_HOME}/conf/alluxio-site.properties`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      needs to add below AWS credentials configuration to `${ALLUXIO_HOME}/conf/alluxio-site.properties`
```

Author: Done

      in Alluxio master node.

      ``` xml
      alluxio.master.mount.table.root.ufs=s3a://<S3_BUCKET>/<S3_DIRECTORY>
      alluxio.master.mount.table.root.option.aws.accessKeyId=<AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID>
      alluxio.master.mount.table.root.option.aws.secretKey=<AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>
      ```

>       Instead, this guide demonstrates how to mount the S3 compatible file system with aws credentials

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      Instead, this guide demonstrates how to mount the S3 compatible file system with AWS credentials
```

Author: Done

      to any path of Alluxio namespace, and please refer to [RAPIDS Configuration](#rapids-configuration).

>       For more explanations of aws S3 credentials, please refer to [Amazon AWS S3 Credentials setup](https://docs.alluxio.io/os/user/stable/en/ufs/S3.html#advanced-setup).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      For more explanations of AWS S3 credentials, please refer to [Amazon AWS S3 Credentials setup](https://docs.alluxio.io/os/user/stable/en/ufs/S3.html#advanced-setup).
```

      alluxio.user.hostname=NM_hostname_X
      ```

      Note that Alluxio can manage other storage media (e.g. MEM, HDD) in addition to SSD,
      so local data access speed may vary depending on the local storage media. To learn
      more about this topic, please refer to the
      [tiered storage document](https://docs.alluxio.io/os/user/stable/en/core-services/Caching.html#multiple-tier-storage).

5. Mount an existing S3 bucket to Alluxio.

   ``` bash
   ${ALLUXIO_HOME}/bin/alluxio fs mount \
      --option aws.accessKeyId=<AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID> \
      --option aws.secretKey=<AWS_SECRET_KEY_ID> \
      alluxio://RM_hostname:19998/s3 s3a://<S3_BUCKET>/<S3_DIRECTORY>
   ```

   For other filesystems, please refer to [this site](https://www.alluxio.io/).

6. Start Alluxio cluster.

   Login to Alluxio master node, and run

   ``` bash
   ${ALLUXIO_HOME}/bin/alluxio-start.sh all
   ```

   To verify that Alluxio is running, visit [http://RM_hostname:19999](http://RM_hostname:19999)
   to see the status page of the Alluxio master.

## RAPIDS Configuration

There are two ways to leverage Alluxio in RAPIDS.

1. Explicitly specify the Alluxio path.

>    This may require user to change code. For example, Change

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   This may require user to change code. For example, change
```

Author: Done

      --option aws.secretKey=<AWS_SECRET_KEY_ID> \
      alluxio://RM_hostname:19998/s3 s3a://<S3_BUCKET>/<S3_DIRECTORY>
   ```

   For other filesystems, please refer to [this site](https://www.alluxio.io/).

6. Start Alluxio cluster.

   Login to Alluxio master node, and run

   ``` bash
   ${ALLUXIO_HOME}/bin/alluxio-start.sh all
   ```

   To verify that Alluxio is running, visit [http://RM_hostname:19999](http://RM_hostname:19999)
   to see the status page of the Alluxio master.

## RAPIDS Configuration

There are two ways to leverage Alluxio in RAPIDS.

1. Explicitly specify the Alluxio path.

   This may require user to change code. For example, change

   ``` scala
   val df = spark.read.parquet("s3a://<S3_BUCKET>/<S3_DIRECTORY>/foo.parquet")
   ```

   to

   ``` scala
   val df = spark.read.parquet("alluxio://RM_hostname:19998/s3/foo.parquet")
   ```

2. Transparently replace in RAPIDS.

   RAPIDS has added a configuration `spark.rapids.alluxio.pathsToReplace` which can allow RAPIDS
   to replace the input file paths to the Alluxio paths transparently at runtime. So there is no
   code change for users.

   Eg, at startup

   ``` shell

>    --conf spark.rapids.alluxio.pathsToReplace="s3:/foo->alluxio://RM_hostname:19998/foo,gs:/bar->alluxio://RM_hostname:19998/bar"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   --conf spark.rapids.alluxio.pathsToReplace="s3://foo->alluxio://RM_hostname:19998/foo,gs:/bar->alluxio://RM_hostname:19998/bar"
```

   ```

>    This configuration allows RAPIDS to replace any file paths prefixed `s3:/foo` with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   This configuration allows RAPIDS to replace any file paths prefixed `s3://foo` with
```

GPUs, but it’s hard to accelerate the data reading process when the data is in a cloud
filesystem because of network overhead.

[Alluxio](https://www.alluxio.io/) is an open source data orchestration platform that
brings your data closer to compute across clusters, regions, clouds, and countries for
reducing the network overhead. Compute applications talking to Alluxio can transparently
cache frequently accessed data from multiple sources, especially from remote locations.

This guide will go through how to set up the RAPIDS Accelerator for Apache Spark with
Alluxio in an on-premise cluster.

## Prerequisites

This guide assumes the user has successfully setup and run the RAPIDS Accelerator in an
on-premise cluster according to [this doc](getting-started-on-prem.md).

This guide will go through deployment of Alluxio in a Yarn cluster with 2 NodeManagers and
1 ResourceManager, It will describe how to configure an S3 compatible filesystem as
Alluxio’s underlying storage system.

We may want to put the Alluxio workers on the NodeManagers so they are on the same nodes as
the Spark tasks will run, the Alluxio master can go anywhere, we pick ResourceManager for
convenience.

> Let's assume the hostnames of them are respectively

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's assume the hostnames are:
```
